FILE: C:/Users/DELL/Desktop/P-00092_SecurityOfficerHandbook.pdf
PAGES: 38
TITLE: 

SECURITY OFFICER HANDBOOK -- 1 of 38 -- -- 2 of 38 -- PREFACE This document explains the legal authority, rights, and obligations of applicants and licensees for security officer licenses in Florida. Citations to Florida Statutes (F.S.) and the Florida Administrative Code (F.A.C.) are included in this document for reference to the precise language presented in law and rule. For further information, see Chapter 493, F.S., and Chapter 5N-1, F.A.C. i -- 3 of 38 -- TABLE OF CONTENTS SECURITY GUIDELINES TITLE/SUBJECT PAGE I. Law 1 II. Regulated Activity 1 III. Types of Licenses 1 IV. Training Requirements 3 V. Firearms 6 VI. Firearms Training 10 VII. Use of Force 14 VIII. Uniforms and Identification Cards 15 IX. Insurance Requirements 17 X. Applying for a License 17 XI. Cancellation/Inactivation of License 20 XII. Agency Advertisements 21 XIII. Use of State Seal Prohibited 21 XIV. Other Prohibited Acts 21 XV. Badges 25 XVI. Vehicle Lights 25 XVII. Unlawful Symbols of Authority 26 XVIII. FDACS, Division of Licensing 26 XIX. Disciplinary Action/Penalties 27 XX. Duty to Report Arrests 30 XXI. Regional Offices 31 ii -- 4 of 38 -- SECURITY GUIDELINES I. LAW – Chapter 493, Florida Statutes The following explanations of the law are intended to assist applicants and licensees in understanding the basic requirements and restrictions of Chapter 493, Florida Statutes. Please note that this handbook does not constitute the entirety of the law. Individuals seeking a more comprehensive understanding of the law are directed to carefully read and study Chapter 493, Florida Statutes, as well as Chapter 5N-1, Florida Administrative Code. II. REGULATED ACTIVITY — Private Security Definition — Providing, or advertising as providing, the service of guarding persons or property for compensation. Sections 493.6101(18) and (19), F.S. III. TYPES OF LICENSES • Security Officer — Class “D” license — Any individual who performs security services must have a Class “D” Security Officer License and must own or be employed by a licensed Class “B” Security Agency or branch office. Class “D” licensees may not personally enter into subcontractor agreements with any licensed agency or other business entity. Sections 493.6301(4) and (5), F.S. • Statewide Firearm License — Class “G” license — Any individual who carries a firearm while on duty must have a Class “G” license in addition to his Class “D” or manager’s license. See “Firearms,” Section V • Security Agency — Class “B” license — Any business which advertises as, or is engaged in, the business of furnishing security services, armored car services, or transporting prisoners for compensation is a security agency and must 1 -- 5 of 38 -- possess a Class “B” Security Agency License. Class “B” agencies may enter into subcontractor agreements with other licensed agencies. Agencies must notify the division of any changes in officers or ownership within 5 working days of the change. Agencies must notify the division of any changes in physical location within 10 working days of the change. Agency licenses that reflect incorrect information because such changes have not been reported, are in violation of Chapter 493, F.S. Sections 493.6106(2)(a), 493.6112(1), and 493.6301(1) • Branch Office — Class “BB” license — Each additional location of an agency where security business is actively conducted must obtain a Class “BB” Branch Office License. Section 493.6301(2), F.S. • Agency Managers — Class “M” or “MB” license — Any person who directs the activities of licensed security officers at any agency or branch office must have a Class “M” or Class “MB” Manager License. A Class “D” licensee, who has been so licensed for a minimum of two (2) years, may be designated as the manager, in which case the Class “M” or “MB” license is not required. The manager assigned to an agency or branch office must operate primarily from the location for which he has been designated as manager. Each licensed location must have a designated, properly licensed manager and a licensed manager may only be designated as manager for one location. Section 493.6301(3)(a), F.S. • Security Officer Instructor — Class “DI” license — Any individual who teaches or instructs at a Class “DS” Security Officer School or Training Facility shall have a Class “DI” license, except instructors who are full-time faculty members. Instructors who are full-time faculty members and who teach exclusively for public educational facilities are exempt from this requirement. Section 493.6301(8), F.S. 2 -- 6 of 38 --